## 2023-11-02
### Attendees:
- Igor Savchenko ([@DiscyDel](https://github.com/DicsyDel))
- Marcin Wyszynski ([@marcinwyszynski](https://github.com/marcinwyszynski))
- Roger Simms ([@allofthesepeople](https://github.com/allofthesepeople))
- Roni Frantchi ([@roni-frantchi](https://github.com/roni-frantchi))

### Absent
- Yevgeniy Brikman ([@brikis98](https://github.com/brikis98))
- Omry Hay ([@omry-hay](https://github.com/omry-hay))

### Agenda

#### Selecting an RFC for a registry solution for resolving providers/modules
1. There was a **unanimous** consensus the RFC for [Homebrew-like artifact resolution registry component](https://github.com/opentofu/opentofu/issues/741) should be picked.
1. Main drivers for the decision (each in the meeting brought at least one of the following):
   1. To be able to keep our word of being a drop-in replacement and innovate and win over hearts and minds we wish to have our core team focus on our CLI solution and avoid maintaining a highly available mission critical SaaS
   1. We wish to tie maximize our availability by standing on the shoulders of giants (GitHub/AWS)
   1. The transparency of the solution as a git repository, which is at the core of our competitive offering
   1. Decoupling between the solution of resolving artifacts and that of serving documentation, and artifact signing, would allow each component to be built according to their own non-functional requirements such as availability, and be replaced/evolve on its own.
1. Signing keys - we will launching with an equivalent level of security to the legacy registry, but the decoupled approach leaves the door open for future enhancements.
1. It was decided to not have the core team pursue a user facing registry design (i.e documentation part) just yet
1. Next steps are: (action item [@RLRabinowitz](https://github.com/RLRabinowitz) and [@cube2222](https://github.com/cube2222))
   1. Announcing selected RFC to the community ASAP
   1. Getting deeper into implementation details such as:
      1. Scraping (or not) of existing modules/providers + keys
      1. Detailed design on key submission
      1. Detailed design on version bumps
      1. Sharing the detailed design document
      1. Define scope and approach/breakdown of tasks for core team to pursue

#### Recurring technical steering committee meetings
  1. Since we believe we may have some backlog of agenda items still, we will start with a weekly meeting, currently looking at Thursday 7:30PM CET (exact _time_ pending, action item [@allofthesepeople](https://github.com/allofthesepeople))
  1. Agenda suggestions for meeting will be posted no less than 24h in advance, if no items are posted we will cancel the meeting

#### Personnel
1. Following a founders meeting decision to hire core team members under various pledging companies their payroll and donate time, rather than under direct foundation payroll -
   1. Spacelift already hired two **dedicated** maintainers
   1. Spacelift built a profile and hiring pipeline dedicated for the Tofu effort which will be shared with companies interested in hiring Tofu dedicated personnel
