## 2024-10-15

### Attendees

- Christan Mesh ([@cam72cam](https://github.com/cam72cam)) (OpenTofu Tech Lead)
- Roger Simms ([@allofthesepeople](https://github.com/allofthesepeople))
- Oleksandr Levchenkov ([@ollevche](https://github.com/ollevche))
- Wojciech Barczynski ([@wojciech12](https://github.com/wojciech12))
- Yousif Akbar ([@yhakbar](https://github.com/yhakbar)) (On behalf of Zach Goldberg)

### Agenda

#### Registry Policy

Vote - as the topic is important for the project, we opt for a unanimous vote. We will ask Env0 to voice their concerns. If needed, discuss the next meeting. But we will vote to move the topic forward. The deadline for expressing the is 22 October/the next TSC meeting:

- Policy: https://github.com/opentofu/registry/blob/main/POLICY.md (to be published on 23 October).
- An initial vote was taken to escalate to the requirement of a unanimous vote, which passed.
- Assuming we have unanimous consent (no pushback by the deadline), we will move forward with publishing the current policy as written on 2024/10/15 by the next TSC meeting.
- The Tech Lead will respond to questions on the policy for existing issues/PRs and not take any action other than referring to the policy. We will need time to review actions already taken and potential future actions. Any significant communication will be cleared in the tsc+core Slack channel.
- Vote: all TSC attending the meeting voted YES.

### Registry Updates

The core team reached out to the TSC for feedback/opinion on how to update the provider/module registry. Should we discover new providers (Github scrapping), rely on the community or authors to submit them, or take more balanced action? It is a mid priority currently.

The core team considers the following options with regular cadence:

- Option A:
    - Add the providers’ metadata to our registry
    - Optionally contact the maintainers to see if they could submit a GPG key
- Option B:
    - Contact maintainers of popular provider authors to add their provider and key to the registry.
    - Could be limited to large clouds/services to reduce the scope
    - There is a higher likelihood of getting more keys in the registry
- Option C:
    - Don’t do anything and expect users to submit providers they need or bug the provider authors themselves.

The TSC recommends a split between Options B and C (especially for less popular providers/modules when polled earlier this week. Having a template for reaching out to the providers/module authors could help us communicate consistently.

#### Discussion

Discussion:

- YousifA: for B, it would be good to have a template (polite and with instructions) that we can use to reach module/provider authors. C → everything else.
- ChristianM: I like to use stars/forks to see what providers/modules are popular
- RogerS: B, Can we get the same results from the community? The community could create a list of popular modules/providers missing from the OpenTofu registry. We would contact the authors.
- WojciechB: For B, I would prefer that the core team contact the authors of popular modules/providers instead of the community members.
- OleksandrC: C, we can use it as an opportunity to build relationships with large companies/collaborations/blogposts (see IntelliJ).
- Christian: this task has medium priority.

### Migration from Notion to Google Docs

It will be on hold till Igor Savchenko ([@DiscyDel](https://github.com/DicsyDel)) is back from holidays.

