## 2024-08-20

### Attendees

- Christan Mesh ([@cam72cam](https://github.com/cam72cam)) (OpenTofu Tech Lead)
- Igor Savchenko ([@DiscyDel](https://github.com/DicsyDel))
- Roger Simms ([@allofthesepeople](https://github.com/allofthesepeople))
- Wojciech Barczynski ([@wojciech12](https://github.com/wojciech12))
- Zach Goldberg ([@ZachGoldberg](https://github.com/ZachGoldberg))

### Agenda

#### Shall we stop using Notion?

- Igor: do we need notion?
- Zach: reluctantly second motion, easy to do stuff not in public.  Pushes us toward public on github.
- Igor: migrate this to private space, keep private/public for sensitive information
- Igor: we probably have a week or two.  Worst case pay for a month and then migrate.

##### Decision

Vote: unanimous yes

#### Sanctions Russia vs registry access

- Add note to README during PR documenting this discussion in TSC_SUMMARY
- Block Russian IP Blocks from accessing our registry in Cloudflare

##### Decision

Vote: unanimous yes

#### PackageCloud

PackageCloud provides free deb/rpm hosting for OpenTofu.

- We said we would do a case study
- They are asking to be listed as sponsors
- Igor: Ok with updating sponsors (cloudflare as well)

##### Decision

Christian: will write up a "case study" ([examples](https://buildkite.com/case-studies)) and post for TSC review.

#### State Backend Improvements

- Continuing the discussion from 2024-07-24, we need to start planning how we want to support new backends, community backends, and modifications to backends
- Christian: gave overview of backend related issues in OpenTofu and their relative :+1: counterparts
   - Backends as Plugins (32 :+1:)
   - Modifications of existing backends (72 :+1:)
   - Support for new backends (40 :+1:)
- Community is already working around this with the HTTP backend and helper binaries (20+ easily found in github search)
- Potential Paths:
   - Improve http backend or create httpng or similar with workspace support
   - Create GRPC protocol and extend existing registry (Backends as Plugins)
   - Document and recommend remote or cloud backend
- Christian: Proposal
   - Stage 1: Improve HTTP Backend and provide library + compliance tests to community to foster adoption
   - Stage 2: Support backend plugins using above protocol (HTTP or gRPC, library makes it trivial for authors)
   - Stage 3: Migrate internal backends to plugin
- Christian: Proposes that we start with Stage 1 as a low-risk evaluation of the concept. Re-evaluate Stage 2/3 based on Stage 1 feedback and adoption.
- Igor: remote/cloud protocol not within our control. How simple can we make the http protocol?
- Wojciech: Likes the staged plan, hedges risk. Also likes proper support for the http backend and thinks TACOS will migrate.
- Igor: HTTP works through proxies, which may be a big advantage
- Zach: Fan of the PoC to demonstrate value, don’t know until you built it

##### Decision:

**Christian will prepare RFC for Stage 1 and send to TSC + Community via GitHub PR**

