## 2024-08-13

### Attendees

- Christan Mesh ([@cam72cam](https://github.com/cam72cam)) (OpenTofu Tech Lead)
- Igor Savchenko ([@DiscyDel](https://github.com/DicsyDel))
- Roger Simms ([@allofthesepeople](https://github.com/allofthesepeople))
- Roni Frantchi ([@roni-frantchi](https://github.com/roni-frantchi))
- Wojciech Barczynski ([@wojciech12](https://github.com/wojciech12))
- Zach Goldberg ([@ZachGoldberg](https://github.com/ZachGoldberg))

### Agenda

#### Open Governance

- Christian: Where do we publish our governance documents?
- Christian: Do we need to amend our governance documents before publishing them?
- Have we defined how we manage TSC membership?
- Igor: Usually in a github repo w/ amendments and meeting notes
    - Also look at other CNCF projects
    - LF to review before publishing
    - TSC meeting to make amendments
- Christian: side conversations with OpenBao, potentially de-duplicating effort
- Roni: document existing process
    - first draft posted in internal chat
    - meeting after define how/where to publish
- Igor: envoy gov doc
- **Zach: Gruntworks employee to make first draft** for further iteration (a good example – https://github.com/envoyproxy/envoy/blob/main/GOVERNANCE.md)

#### Initial Conversation on Guides

We have users asking for getting started guides ([Issue #1838](https://github.com/opentofu/opentofu/issues/1838), and others).  They don’t want to switch between the Terraform and OpenTofu docs.  We have also had at least one company ask if we are interested in documentation services, though that conversation is premature.

We need to:

- Define if/where we want to start by including guides in OpenTofu

  - We could start with a similar layout to terraform, just with less examples.
  - Alternatively, we could come up with a layout that makes sense to us.

- Determine who should be in charge of creating and maintaining them
   - First few could be created by the core team
   - Continued by teams at the tacos with existing experience?
   - Continued by external contractor/company?
   - Continued by community?  Hard to tell if GPT/ripped from elsewhere.

##### Discussion

- Igor: what’s the worst case scenario here? Try to involve community if possible

- **Roger: volunteer Harness teams**
- **Core team will setup the layout in the next few weeks when capacity allows**
- Roni: team owns documentation, many tutorials & guides will come from the community
  - TACOS already market new features and create guides
  - Reach out to existing tf courses to mention/use OpenTofu

- Who should reach out to existing tf courses?
  - **Roni: delegate to Arel / core team, well known to the community**
  - Worked well with other integrations (jetbrains for example)
  - Env0 marketing may also reach out

#### Open Source ARD how to choose between TF and OpenTofu

Additional community question: Is there a copy and pastable open source ADR on Decide on HCL tool with pros and cons of each opentofu vs terraform that can be sold internally to an organization?

- Wojciech: could be a good blog post
- Christian: we have a year of experience and can talk about our strengths
- Wojciech: re-use spacelift articles
- Roger: emphasize the longevity of the project
- Zach: lots of FUD (providers) + CDKTF
- **Wojciech: Will create initial draft with SpaceLift and bring to TSC**

