# Topics to Discuss

- How to manage TSC agenda/notes, logistically vis-a-vis github repos, timing, PRs etc.
- Update on action items from last meeeting
- CNCF onboarding
  - Curent Status
  - Slack Migration
- Reworking github groups and org membership
  - This is needed to match governance
- Maintainer team Hackathon

# Video Recording
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SOcGYhXCdao

# Attendees
- James Humphries
- Igor Savchenko
- Christian Mesh
- Ilia Gogotchuri
- Roger Simms
- Zach Goldberg
- Troy Knapp

# Notes

## Recap last week's action items
- Last week recap
  - CNCF Migration - Blocked on final step of migrating slack server.  We need to provide a deadline for migration in the current slack.
    - James has had a ticket open w/CNCF for ~6 weeks trying to confirm the import process. James did get a reply from CNCF this morning asking us to wait a bit longer as they figure some things out.
    - Igor proposes an export of emails and import to send invites in new slack. James's concern is about logistics of importing users to a specific "opentofu" channel inside CNCF slack workspace.
    - **Decision**: Give CNCF one more week, then execute the backup plan or a manual import.
- **ACTION** (carryover) - Christian to write a RFC for dumping profiling info from OpenTofu
- James did speak to Kuba about unknown imputs RFC, Kuba said he'd look into it
- Future of Workspaces / Interfaces with Orchestrators - Action from last time was to organize the group to discuss a proposal. That has not happened yet.
  - **Action** on Roger to setup the group/send out invitations. 
## Current Week Agenda Items

### TSC Notes Logistics
- **DECISION/ACTION**: @Yantrio - Make a new `governance` repo with TSC docs, agendas, notes etc. and move these files

### GitHub Groups/Org Membership
- Currently have a group with maintainers + prior TSC
- Proposal: Remove inactive/enforce least privilege here, just as a cleanup.
  - Consensus - no objection
- **ACTION**: @cam72cam to remove non-essential members from the org.

### Hackathon Results
- Last week was core-team hackathon, Christian described it as "fantastic."
- James's Overview
  - Idea: Public blog post/demo videos
  - Background:
    - Went into hackathon with the idea that nothing is sacred.  Anything can be deleted.  Goal was to be creative/spark ideas.  Production code not required.
  - Most projects were successful!
  - Several Workstreams
    1. James: Improving user feedback during tofu init/plan/apply
        - Web interface to visualize module layout in a node graph / flow
        - TUI to show logs etc.
        - Identified that what we have now is _ok_ but improving usability for local-dev end users is a good idea
    1. James: Implemented a middleware hook for extensibility for e.g. infracost, MCP servers
    1. Dio: Formalize output streams/differentiate human readable and machine readable logs.
    1. Christian: _Find a way to "de-ossify" OpenTofu:_
        - The primary Tofu package is difficult to work with. A lot of it is just an organic evolution of code, in need of a retroactive cleanup. Christian attempted a clean-sheet design of the package. Thinking about blogging about it as well, perhaps collect inputs for a RFC. 
        - The toy example demonstrated a significant improvement in debuggability, readability and also potentially order-of-magnitude improvement in local micro-benchmark performance improvement.
    1. Martin - Granular state storage.
    1. Ilia - Investigation into creating sandbox environments for tutorials/user-education. Mock providers etc.
    1. Andrei - Remote provider execution, using gRPC. 
  - Summary from James: There's some really promising ideas here.  If we write up RFCs and make the commitments to do some of these cleanups, very optimistic that things like adding a new block can go from weeks to days.
  - Followups - Some projects will have writeups/demos/RFCs, others were just for learning and won't have outputs.

### Upcomming Blog Post
- Upcomming blog post content:
    - MCP Server
    - VS Code Extension
    - 1.10 w/OCI 

### 1.11
- Christian is working on finalizing the roadmap/todo list for 1.11
- Some thoughts:
  - Christian proposes 1.11 be less structured than 1.10.  
    - Scope historically was more fixed, felt like we were "reserving" issues for maintainers
  - James: 1.10 is a _massive_ release.  Would be nice to do smaller releases, aiming for 2-3 months.  Would be nice to pick a flagship feature, ship when that one is ready. Want to avoid the "lets add one more thing" syndrome/scope creep.
  - Some things already identified:
    - OpenTelemetry improvements
    - Ephemeral Values
    - (Space for a hackathon project followup or two)

### Oracle Cloud Backend 
- Terraform's latest release included an oracle cloud backend
- We've thus far tried to not make significant backend changes as we're looking to implement an alternate system, e.g. backends as plugins
- The author of the oracle cloud backend reached out to Christian/OpenTofu about the backend. The concern is about maintainability and general maintenance strategy, who owns the testing burden etc.  OpenTofu's goal is to move to a model where maintenance is clear for backends.  The conversation thus far is OpenTofu would consider merging it if Oracle will commit to supporting the oracle cloud backend inside the OpenTofu codebase.  Oracle did submit a PR to OpenTofu, though it has needed a bit of cleanup/changes to be appropriate to merge, including submitting the code under the MPLv2 license.
- Note: This is the first time a vendor has submitted a major piece of code to both projects, so we're working through the issues.
- Note: **We should NOT read the PR** until Oracle/the contributors sign with a [DCO](https://github.com/opentofu/opentofu/blob/main/contributing/DEVELOPING.md).
- This conversation with Oracle has been going on for many months, so it doesn't seem urgent, its progressing a little at a time.
- Conversation
  - Igor: We should treat this as any other third party code, give Oracle the same bar.  We don't generally require a specific maintenance commitment, so we accept it, and if it falls into disrepair, we mark it deprecated and remove it in the future. This is how lots of other projects e.g. Linux Kernel, work.
  - Christian: I'm OK with that, the expectation is Oracle will maintain it, as any author would.
  
#### Backends as Plugins
  - Question: Backends as plugins as a solution to the Oracle Backend discussion?
  - Christian: We've talked about it, we want to do something like that, it's just a question of finalizing the design and the right sequence vis-a-vis other major architectural changes. Christian is not optimistic it'll be something we do anytime soon, but eventually.
  - Question: What's the user win?
  - Christian: Maintaining some of the backends is very expensive for us. We don't have, for example, much Azure experience in the core team, and so that backend may have more bugs or slower performance than others. The HTTP backend is already a commonly used workaround/flexible solution, despite how technically a hack it is.
  - James: Unlike Hashi, we don't have a relationship with e.g. AWS to maintain backends.  It's critical then that we can continue to lean on the work that's already done and not set ourselves up to expand our maintenance surface area. Agree there's tech debt, but I don't see the end user value
  - Igor: Agree w/James.  Is this an interrum solution or the endgame?  Having someone else maintain the plugins will be challenging. We'd need to be very confident in the interface, have backwards compatibility promises etc.  Comparing this to a 10x execution speedup, just feels low impact. In addition, the surface area of backends is actually smaller than we think: 80-90% of users are using AWS, Google, Azure and some TACOs w/remote backends.  The remainder are very low usage.
  - Zach: Agree w/James & Igor.
  - Christian: Fidelity has strong critical feedback about the HTTP backend. Christian is pointing out that usage at TACOs might also be different from non-TACO/DIY users.
  - Igor: Why'd they use the HTTP backend to begin with?  We should dig deeper and understand the root need.
  - **ACTION**: Christian to talk to fidelity and better understand the challenges Fidelity had.
