# TSC Meeting Notes - May 27, 2025

## Meeting Details

### Video Recording
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ieOT0_HTTJc

### Attendees

**TSC:**
- James Humphries
- Christian Mesh
- Zach Goldberg
- Roger Simms
- Igor Savchenko
- Arel Rabinowitz

## Agenda

1. TSC Chair assignment and voting
2. 1.11.0 Possible "Big ticket" features
3. CNCF onboarding
   - Current Status
   - Slack Migration
4. Reworking github groups and org membership
   - This is needed to match governance

## Meeting Notes

### 1. Chair Assignment

#### Discussion
- Christian Mesh was proposed, however he has asked to not be put forward
- James pitched the idea of Christian being interim TSC Chair
- Christian is happy to take that role under the condition that we find someone else soon
- Igor mentioned that the chair is only mentioned in the charter and not the governance doc, no responsibilities are decided anywhere. Igor asked if we need a chair right now?
- There is a possibility that we don't need it right now and that electing a chair right now will not solve any issues

#### Decision
**Let's defer chair assignment until we need it** - Agreed

### 2. 1.11.0 Possible "Big Ticket" Features

#### Current State - Update from Christian Mesh

#### 2.1 Ephemeral Values

**Background:**
- Work is already in progress
- RFC Tracker: https://github.com/opentofu/opentofu/issues/2834
- Future of workspaces are being questioned right now
- More refining is needed in this area around the designs
- Christian proposes that the TSC members work with the RFC authors to refine those ideas
- Initial Issue: https://github.com/opentofu/opentofu/issues/2160

**Comments:**
- **Arel:** We should discuss what the pain points are
- **James:** We should collate all of the issues that relate here
- **Christian:** One of the maintainers has a list of issues here and can work with a TSC member to gather this information
- **Roger:** This does constitute a breaking change, which is something that we've avoided for a while now. What is our position on making breaking changes?
- **Christian:** The title was quite provocative on purpose, but it's recommended to read the issue in depth
- **Zach:** Let's co-ordinate and discuss with Yousif from terragrunt as a SME in this area

**Action Items:**
- Collate a group of people to discuss this:
  - Yousif
  - James
  - Roger
  - Martin Atkins (Maintainer)
  - Igor

#### 2.2 Resource Identities

**Background:**
- Hashicorp has a method of attaching an identity to a resource
- A community member has asked for the ability to import from a resource identity: https://github.com/opentofu/opentofu/issues/2854

**Comments:**
- **Zach:** Can we nominate a person to create a well-informed opinion here

**Action Items:**
- James to do a writeup/issue to discuss this in the future

#### 2.3 Unknown Inputs

**Background:**
- Issue: https://github.com/opentofu/opentofu/issues/812
- Initial implementation/PoC: https://github.com/opentofu/opentofu/issues/812#issuecomment-1792802635

**Comments:**
- **James:** We should have a full RFC
- **Arel:** Does this overlap with Deferred actions?
- **Zach:** How do we deal with the 2 different layers (execution vs orchestration)
- **James:** We should discuss the future of the "orchestration layer" and what that looks like in the scope of opentofu in the future

**Action Items:**
- James to reach out to cube2222 to write an RFC (Or handle this in the maintainers)

#### 2.4 Performance - It's a Feature!

**Comments:**
- **Christian:** I would like to get statistics from the TACOS and other community members to identify if the latest version of 1.10.0 of opentofu had a large impact on invocation time
- Should we/Could we add a way to expose a profiler dump from opentofu?
- **James:** OTel should cover 99% of these use cases. It has had a great improvement in 1.10.0
- **Christian:** OTel doesn't cover enough to help maintainers

**Action Items:**
- Christian to write an RFC

### 3. CNCF Onboarding

James gives a status update

#### Action Plan
- Make an announcement on the opentofu community slack about our migration to the CNCF slack, explain the next steps:
  - We will consolidate/close down channels
  - We will then be migrating across to the CNCF workspace, people will receive an invite
  - We ask people to start discussions in the CNCF Slack channel (Set a timeline of 7 days)
  - Set a deadline of when we will close down the opentofu community slack

#### Channels on the CNCF Slack Proposals
- `#opentofu` (Open)
- `#opentofu-maintainers` (Open)

### 4. Github Organization Membership and Groups

#### Discussion
- We clean up org members
- We should move to 2 groups: TSC + Maintainers

#### Comments
- **Igor:** Are we planning on moving it to github enterprise etc?

#### Decision
- Let's discuss github enterprise when we're fully onboarded to the CNCF
- Let's clean up the github org as much as possible now