## 2025-05-27

### Attendees

**TSC:**
- James Humphries
- christianm@opentofu.org
- zach@gruntwork.io
- roger.simms@harness.io
- Igor Savchenko

**Other:**

### Agenda

- TSC Chair assignment and voting
- 1.11.0 Possible "Big ticket" features
- CNCF onboarding
  - Current Status
  - Slack Migration
- Reworking github groups and org membership
  - This is needed to match governance

### Notes

#### Chair assignment

**Discussion:**
- Christian Mesh was proposed, however he has asked to not be put forward.
- James pitched the idea of Christian being interim TSC Chair
- Christian is happy to take that role under the condition that we find someone else soon.
- Igor mentioned that the chair is only mentioned in the charter and not the governance doc, no responsibilities are decided anywhere. Igor asked if we need a chair right now?
- There is a possibility that we don't need it right now and that electing a chair right now will not solve any issues. 

**Decision:** Let's defer chair assignment until we need it : Agreed

#### 1.11.0 Possible "Big ticket" features

**Current state - Update from Christian Mesh**

**Ephemeral Values**
- Work is already in progress
- RFC Tracker here: https://github.com/opentofu/opentofu/issues/2834
- Future of workspaces are being questioned right now
- More refining is needed in this area around the designs
- Christian proposes that the TSC members work with the RFC authors to refine those ideas.
- Initial Issue here: https://github.com/opentofu/opentofu/issues/2160

**Comments:**
- Arel: We should discuss what the pain points are
- James: We should collate all of the issues that relate here
- Christian: One of the maintainers has a list of issues here and can work with a TSC member to gather this information
- Roger: This does constitute a breaking change, which is something that we've avoided for a while now. What is our position on making breaking changes?
- Christian: The title was quite provocative on purpose, but it's recommended to read the issue in depth. 
- Zach: Let's co-ordinate and discuss with Yousif from terragrunt as a SME in this area.

**Action items:**
- Collate a group of people to discuss this
  - Yousif
  - James
  - Roger
  - Martin Atkins (Maintainer)
  - Igor

**Resource Identities**
- Hashicorp has a method of attaching an identity to a resource
- A community member has asked for the ability to import from a resource identity here: https://github.com/opentofu/opentofu/issues/2854

**Comments:**
- Zach: Can we nominate a person to create a well-informed opinion here

**Action items:**
- James to do a writeup/issue to discuss this in the future

**Unknown inputs**
- Issue made here: https://github.com/opentofu/opentofu/issues/812
- An initial implementation/PoC has been made here: https://github.com/opentofu/opentofu/issues/812#issuecomment-1792802635

**Comments:**
- James: We should have a full RFC
- Arel: Does this overlap with Deferred actions?
- Zach: How do we deal with the 2 different layers (execution vs orchestration)
- James: We should discuss the future of the "orchestration layer" and what that looks like in the scope of opentofu in the future

**Action items:**
- James to reach out to cube2222 to write an RFC (Or handle this in the maintainers)

**Performance - It's a feature!**

**Comments:**
- Christian: I would like to get statistics from the TACOS and other community members to identify if the latest version of 1.10.0 of opentofu had a large impact on invocation time
- Should we/Could we add a way to expose a profiler dump from opentofu?
- James: OTel should cover 99% of these use cases. It has had a great improvement in 1.10.0.
- Christian: OTel doesn't cover enough to help maintainers.

**Action items:**
- Christian to write an RFC

#### CNCF Onboarding

James gives a status update

**Action plan:**
- Make an announcement on the opentofu community slack about our migration to the CNCF slack, explain the next steps:
  - We will consolodate/close down channels
  - We will then be migrating across to the CNCF workspace, people will receive an invite
  - We ask people to start discussions in the CNCF Slack channel (Set a timeline of 7 days)
  - Set a deadline of when we will close down the opentofu community slack

**Channels on the CNCF Slack proposals:**
- #opentofu (Open)
- #opentofu-maintainers (Open)

#### Github organization Membership and groups

**Discussion:**
- We clean up org members
- We should move to 2 groups, TSC + Maintainers

**Comments:**
- Igor: Are we planning on moving it to github enterprise etc?

**Decision:**
- Let's discuss github enterprise when we're fully onboarded to the CNCF
- Let's clean up the github org as much as possible now